Assign4: Due 11:59PM April 22

In this assignment we will design a logical characters processing unit. The processing unit will receive a series of characters as input and produce a series of characters as output. The unit may house any number of processing blocks. Not all blocks that are available may be used when creating a processing unit. Also, a block may be used more than once. The order in which the blocks are used may also vary.


		...input... -> | block1 block2 block3 ... | -> ...output...
                         processing unit

Let's discuss some examples of blocks and then revisit the processing unit.

1. UpperCaseConverter Block
	Given a character, this block will send out or return the character in uppercase.

2. LowerCaseConverter Block
	Given a character, this block will send out or return the character in lowercase.

3. Multiplier Block
  Given a character, this block will send out or return two of the same character. For example, if it received 'a', it will produce 'aa'. If it receives '1', it will produce '11'.

4. z-blocker Block
  Given a character, if the character is a lowercase 'z', this block will not return or produce anything. If it is any other character, it will produce the given character as output. For example, 'a' will result in an output of 'a'.

5. Z-blocker Block
	This block will not return or produce an output if the character given is an uppercase 'Z'.

6. k-blocker Block
   This block will not return or produce an output if the character given is lowercase 'k'.

The program should allow end users to create other similar blocks they like.

The end user should be able to create a processing unit using a series of blocks.

For example, a user may create a processing unit with the following series of blocks:
	UpperCaseConverter - Z-blocker - LowerCaseConverter

After creating this processing unit, if a user were to send the following series of characters to the unit:

	11abcdabcdabcdzzaazzabcd

it will return the following output:

	11abcdabcdabcdaaabcd

In addition to designing a few sample blocks and the processing unit, we will create a console based driver program.

Design the program in such a way that
1. A user can specify the blocks available for use before the program starts. This should include pre-defined blocks and user created blocks.

2. The user can specify, through a file, the blocks they'd like to use and the order or sequence in which they'd like to use them.

Think through the overall design of the program first. Then start with one small, but interesting and valuable part, and evolve the design and code incrementally.

After completing the assignment answer these questions:

1. What did you learn in this assignment?

In this assignment we practiced the different design principles. There were many times when we overlooked one or two principles. Through reviews and discussions, we learned to realize a program which correctly followed the principles. Most importantly we learned how to use the design patterns to communicate the design plan for this assignment.

In this assignment 4, we witnessed the way we tackle a complex problem. At first, the number of features in this assignments seems overwhelming. We had to build many different blocks for processing characters. There had to be a feature where the user would be able to input a character string to be processed. If we were to tackle this problem without gaining problem solving direction, the user interface would be implemented first. Why? Because we would see that as being the quickest way to getting the software working. However, when solving a problem, the most important features a software must perform should be dealt with. After careful evaluation of the features, each feature will be coded one by one. To summarize, we do not know how the architecture of the ultimate solution will look like before hand. One must start by working bit by bit with the features from the requirement on hand. This type of problem solving holds relevance in all application with different domains.

Lastly we would like to add how possible for one to use features of a language without considering its relationship with the software design. It is very important to discuss the details of each SRP. There may be a case when using powerful features there may be violations of principles that would result in a brittle software.

2. What design principles did you use? List each one of them, discuss what this principle is, and give example(s) of where specifically you used it in this assignment.

SRP - single responsibility principle. This principle can be observed through the file directory. Each python file contains a class which is has one specific responsibility.

DRY - don't repeat yourself. When starting the assignment, initially we were to create 'Z', 'z', 'k', and user specified character blockers. We originally had create a class method for each of the blockers specified. Then noticing we had violated the DRY principle. In practicality we only really needed on class method that would perform the task of each character blocking unit. The specified character's would essentially use the same method. The interface would use the same process as where the user defines the character.

YAGNI - you aren't gonna need it yet. When starting of the program we tackled all the blocks in one sitting. The result of that action ended up in a big conundrum. After literally deleting everything and being advised to take small steps, we focused on each block bit by bit.

OCP - open closed principle. This principle required ample practice with many trial and error for the ideology to be engraved into our brain. OCP can mainly be seen in the processing_unit.py. If we were to add another type of character processing block, we will not need to modify the procesing_unit. If we needed to make changes on specific blocks because a requirement had been changed we still would not need to modify the processing_unit.

3. What design patterns did you use? List each one of them, discuss what this pattern is, and give example(s) of where specifically you used it in this assignment.

We used 3 creational design patterns to communicate our idea. The Builder pattern, Abstract factory pattern and the Prototype pattern.

The Builder pattern was used to realize the file handling and directing a system to create such blocks that were required. We however did not develop the builder pattern such as creating a director and a builder, where the other classes are derived from builder. In our case we a class that would retrieve the file with information. This information would use a class that would create the sequential order of the class objects that would essentially worked like a director from the pattern. Then processing unit would use delegation processing the respective objects which worked similarly like the builder.

Abstract factory pattern was communicated to bring about the processing unit. We were a bit confused on how would we create the different blocks without violating the OCP. This is when the abstract factory pattern was discussed. Abstract factory which is at the object scope and delegates similar method to different classes with same objective. Slight different then the actual pattern, we used the processing unit to delegate similar method to different classes with different objective. This pattern essentially gave a direction on how we could use polymorphism to implement the usage of different character processing blocks. It differs from how the pattern describes the steps required to implement this specific pattern. We implemented the general idea where similar blocks are constructed through a same relation. Using python language which is dynamically typed. We avoided the creation of the an actual abstract method that is commonly seen in strongly typed languages.

Prototype pattern which is similar to the factory method pattern can be observed in this assignment. Using python it we were easily able to realize the prototype pattern. The processing_unit is essentially independent of how the different blocks are created or used. We avoided inheritance of any type thus avoiding any class hierarchy. The processing_unit also holds ideologies of the façade pattern. Processing_unit is also similar to the use of the façade pattern in the sense it controls the use of the underlying classes and does not encapsulate them. If we like to edit or use a class separately from this character processing class, we have the freedom to do so.

Total [100]: 98

Program works [20]:
Tests pass [20]:
Coverage [10]:
Design Quality [20]:
Code Quality [10]:
Works for user defined converter [10]:
Response to questions in assign4.txt [10]: -2
A few other patterns: iterator, decorator,...?
